- This is how to get incredible results with a French press.
We're looking for a really delicious cup of coffee
with none of the silty-sludgy stuff at the bottom.
If you're in a hurry this really isn't gonna work for you.
This is a really great way to make coffee
but it's not very quick.
You need a little bit of patience that will be rewarded.
You need to get some delicious coffee.
Delicious means fresh, like freshly roasted,
and you're gonna grind it fresh
if you want the best possible experience.
This will work with pre-ground coffee
but it won't taste as good as it could, so grind fresh.
I would recommend starting
between 60 and 70 grams per liter.
How you like it, is up to you.
Get some digital weighing scales.
This is gonna seem insane
but I promise you, it's incredibly useful.
There are two reasons to use it.
You brew coffee that tastes really good,
you wanna do that every single time you brew it,
and, therefore, knowing what you did
is the way to get there.
The alternative is that you brewed a bad cup of coffee.
Now you know what you're changing
when you try something different the next time,
and it will make life so much easier.
Fresh, clean, soft water.
Don't brew with hard water,
don't brew with unfiltered water.
If it doesn't taste delicious on its own,
it's not gonna make great tasting coffee.
So, here's how this is gonna work.
When you grind your coffee, put it in the French press.
Ignore what most people say, don't grind super coarse.
Grind something more likely described as medium.
Boil your water.
Don't worry too much about this, as long as it's boiled,
and then pour the right amount of water on top.
I might brew 30 grams of coffee to 500 grams of water.
And then, we're gonna let it sit for four minutes.
just hang out, wait, be patient.
We're gonna grab a couple of tablespoons.
With one of them, we're gonna stir the crust
that forms on top of the coffee.
a lot of it will start to fall away, and then you'll be left
with some bits on top.
Some foam, some floating bits.
You wanna scoop those off,
just throw them down the sink, it's fine.
Now, here's the bit that seems difficult.
I want you to do nothing at all for at least five minutes.
Now this is a little frustrating 'cause you feel like
you've brewed the coffee, but even
if you pour it into a cup, it's too hot
to drink right now anyway, and the longer you leave it,
the better it's gonna taste.
As you sit, all of those floating bits start to fall down
to the bottom of the press,
and settle in that bed of coffee.
This is exactly what we want.
We don't want those in the cup,
we want those stuck down at the bottom of the cafetiere.
After five, maybe seven, eight minutes,
now you can drink it.
When you put the plunger in, do not plunge all the way.
All you're gonna do there
is stir up all the sediment, all over again.
So just, till it's sitting on the surface of the coffee.
We can use it as a strainer, in case there's any big pieces
that are still floating around,
but we shouldn't really need it.
And then gently pour the coffee through into the cup.
This will be the most delicious silt-sludge-free cup
of coffee you will get from a French press.
Enjoy.
